---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: Troubleshoot IIS request timed out issue
author:
  display_name: aaronzh
  login: wdadmin
  email: webdebug.net@gmail.com
  url: ''
author_login: wdadmin
author_email: webdebug.net@gmail.com
wordpress_id: 165
wordpress_url: http://www.webdebug.net:80/?p=165
date: '2012-12-31 06:18:06 +0800'
date_gmt: '2012-12-31 06:18:06 +0800'
categories:
- IIS
- ASP.NET
- Troubleshooting
tags:
- Request timed out
- HttpException
- executionTimeout
comments: []
---
<p><a href="http:&#47;&#47;blogs.msdn.com&#47;b&#47;asiatech&#47;archive&#47;2011&#47;07&#47;06&#47;how-to-troubleshoot-httpexception-request-timed-out-asp-net-2-0-32-bit.aspx" target="_blank"><strong>How to troubleshoot HttpException Request timed out (ASP.NET 2.0 32-bit)<&#47;strong><&#47;a><br />
<a href="http:&#47;&#47;blogs.msdn.com&#47;b&#47;asiatech&#47;archive&#47;2012&#47;06&#47;21&#47;how-to-troubleshoot-httpexception-request-timed-out-asp-net-4-0-64-bit.aspx" target="_blank"><strong>How to troubleshoot HttpException Request timed out (ASP.NET 4.0 64-bit)<&#47;strong><&#47;a><br />
By XinJin</p>
<p>The user may receive the following response intermittently:<br />
<code>Request timed out.<br />
Description: An unhandled exception occurred during the execution of the current web request. Please review the stack trace for more information about the error and where it originated in the code.<br />
Exception Details: System.Web.HttpException: Request timed out.<br />
Source Error:<br />
An unhandled exception was generated during the execution of the current web request. Information regarding the origin and location of the exception can be identified using the exception stack trace below.<&#47;code><br />
--------------------------------------------------------<br />
<code>[HttpException (0x80004005): Request timed out.]<br />
The following warning may occur in application event logs:<br />
Log Name: Application<br />
Source: ASP.NET 4.0.30319.0<br />
Event ID: 1309<br />
Task Category: Web Event<br />
Level: Warning<br />
Keywords: Classic<br />
User: N&#47;A<br />
Description:<br />
Event code: 3001<br />
Event message: The request has been aborted.<br />
&hellip;<br />
Application information:<br />
&hellip;<br />
Process information:<br />
&hellip;<br />
Process name: w3wp.exe<br />
Account name: IIS APPPOOL\ASP.NET v4.0<br />
Exception information:<br />
Exception type: HttpException<br />
Exception message: Request timed out.<br />
<&#47;code><br />
This kind of issue is typically occurs when the ASP.NET request executes for a period of time longer than the maximum timeout period allowed for server-side code execution.</p>
<p>This maximum timeout period can be set by executionTimeout attribute of httpRuntime element in config file. (The default value is 110 seconds in .Net 4.0)</p>
<p><a href="http:&#47;&#47;blogs.msdn.com&#47;b&#47;asiatech&#47;archive&#47;2012&#47;08&#47;27&#47;httpexception-request-timed-out-error-occurs-even-if-executiontimeout-attribute-is-set-to-a-large-value.aspx" target="_blank"><strong>HttpException &ldquo;Request timed out&rdquo; error occurs even if executionTimeout attribute is set to a large value<&#47;strong><&#47;a><br />
By XinJin</p>
<p><code>Request timed out.<br />
Description: An unhandled exception occurred during the execution of the current web request. Please review the stack trace for more information about the error and where it originated in the code.<br />
Exception Details: System.Web.HttpException: Request timed out.<br />
Source Error:<br />
An unhandled exception was generated during the execution of the current web request. Information regarding the origin and location of the exception can be identified using the exception stack trace below.<br />
Stack Trace:<br />
[HttpException (0x80004005): Request timed out.]<br />
<&#47;code><br />
This issue typically occurs when the ASP.NET request executes for a period of time longer than the maximum timeout period allowed for server-side code execution.<br />
My customer knows it will take 5 minutes to execute his ASP.NET page because the page needs to retrieve large data from database to generate a report. Therefore he has already set the value of executionTimeout attribute of httpRuntime element to 600 seconds in web.config. However he still receives HttpException &ldquo;Request timed out&rdquo; error while the ASP.NET page executes for 2 or 3 minutes.</p>
